I don't believe in Melitele, don't believe in the existence of other gods either, but I respect your choice, your sacrifice. Your belief. Because your faith and sacrifice, the price you're paying for your silence, will make you a better, a greater being. Or, at least, it could. But my faithlessness can do nothing. It's powerless.
You ask me what I believe in, in that case.
I believe in the sword.
People like to invent monsters and monstrosities. Then they seem less monstrous themselves. When they get blind-drunk, cheat, steal, beat their wives, starve an old woman, when they kill a trapped fox with an axe or riddle the last existing unicorn with arrows, they like to think that the Bane entering cottages at daybreak is more monstrous than they are. They feel better then. They find it easier to live.
I manage because I have to. Because I've no other way out. Because I've overcome the vanity and pride of being different. I've understood that they are a pitiful defense against being different. Because I've understood that the sun shines differently when something changes, but I'm not the axis of those changes. The sun shines differently, but it will continue to shine, and jumping at it with a hoe isn't going to do anything. We've got to accept facts, elf. That's what we've got to learn.
Your vision is a world where people are afraid to venture out after dark; not for fear of cut-throats, but of the guardians of public order. For, after all, the result of all great crackdowns on miscreants is always that the miscreants enter the ranks of the guardians of public order en masse. Your vision is a world of bribery, blackmail and entrapment, a world of turning imperial evidence and false witnesses. A world of snoopers and coerced confessions. Informing and the fear of being informed upon. And inevitably the day will come in your world when the flesh of the wrong person will be torn with pincers, when an innocent person is hanged or impaled. And then it will be a world of crime.
If the world is to be saved like that, it would be better for it to perish. Believe me, Duny, it'd be better if it perished.
I only ever thought about you, Yen.
I run into dilemmas all the time. Situations where it's hard to judge, hard to know what's right, make a decision. This is not one of them. You disgust me. And deserve to die.
A true witcher should never abandon poultry in distress.
Time eats away at memories, distorts them. Sometimes we only remember the good... sometimes only the bad.
Why men throw their lives away attacking an armed witcher... I'll never know. Something wrong with my face?
Wizards are all the same. You talk nonsense while making wise and meaningful faces.
Evil is evil. Lesser, greater, middling, it's all the same.
If I have to choose between one evil and another, then I prefer not to choose at all.
Sometimes there's monsters, sometimes there's money. Rarely both. That's the life.
Chaos is the same as it's always been. Humans just adapted better.
When you live as long as I do, all the names start to sound the same.
Destiny helps people believe there's an order to this horseshit. There isn't.
No treasure is worth dying for.
A dynasty can't survive on arrogance alone.
Every time I'm near you, I say more in five minutes than I've said in weeks. And I always regret it.
It's like ordering a pie and finding it has no filling.
When you live as long as I do, all the names start to sound the same.
Ill winds follow grave robbers.
I will take the girl, protect her, and bring her back unharmed.
I need no one. And the last thing I want is someone needing me.
Blessed silence.
You're making me uncomfortable.
States rise and fall like the tide. Nothing new.
Not many of my likeness left.
I suppose that's one way of getting some rest.
I had them filed down.
I find royalty best taken in small doses.
Huh. Then you don't know Yennefer of Vengerberg.
Because then I am what they say I am.
A reclusive sorcerer who uses an alias and hires a young girl to procure him a witcher. You don't want my monster. You want me to kill yours.